README.md, before:

## How to connect to ITU's HPC cluster
To connect to ITU's HPC cluster ((https://hpc.itu.dk/), you need to be in ITU network and use your ITU username and SSH access:

```bash
ssh <your_username>@hpc.itu.dk
```

Use your university email password to log in, the same as for other ITU systems.

## Clone this repository to your local folder at ITU HPC

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ehsanyousefzadehasl/Monitoring_GPUs_on_HPC.git
```

# How to write a job at HPC

The ITU HPC cluster uses SLURM as its scheduler/resource manager. SLURM handles tasks submitted by users and allocates the specified resources based on the task description. To execute tasks on the cluster, you must create a task script like the following example:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

#SBATCH --job-name=cuda_test_job_name      # Job name
#SBATCH --output=cuda_test_output_name     # output file name
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=2                  # Schedule 2 cores (includes hyperthreading)
#SBATCH --gres=gpu                         # Schedule a GPU, it can be on 2 gpus like gpu:2
#SBATCH --time=00:05:00                    # Run time (hh:mm:ss)
#SBATCH --partition=scavenge               # Run on any permitted queue that has availability
#SBATCH --exclusive			   # Exclusive access to the server

module load CUDA/12.1.1

nvcc test_cuda.cu -o test_cuda

dcgmi dmon -e 155,156,200,201,203,204,1001,1002,1003,1004,1005,1006,1007,1008,1009,1010,1011,1012 > dcgmi-log.out &

nvidia-smi --query-gpu=gpu_name,pstate,timestamp,utilization.gpu,memory.total,memory.used --format=csv -l 1 -f nvidia-smi-log.out &

./test_cuda
```

## Notes:

1. You do not have admin access on the cluster, so you cannot install software yourself.
2. Use the module system to load software packages installed by the admins.

For example, to load CUDA:

```bash
module CUDA/12.1.1 
```

This command loads the CUDA environment, including the NVCC compiler needed to compile CUDA programs.

To view all available modules on the cluster:

```bash
module avail
```

## Monitoring CPUs and GPUs
To monitor various hardware metrics during program execution, one can use tools such as top (https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/top.1.html) for CPUs and nvidia-smi (https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/nvidia-smi/index.html) and dcgmi (https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/dcgm/latest/user-guide/feature-overview.html) for GPUs, which you can also see in the example above.

## To execute the job

```bash
sbatch itgt.job
```

## To monitor the job status

```bash
squeue
```

```bash
squeue -u <username>
```

## After Execution
Once the task is complete, you can check the GPU metrics in the log files:
- dcgmi-log.out: Contains detailed metrics captured by dcgmi.
- nvidia-smi-log.out: Logs GPU state and usage metrics as specified in the query.

Commit message:

adding example for additional dcgm line

README.md, after:

## How to connect to ITU's HPC cluster
To connect to ITU's HPC cluster ((https://hpc.itu.dk/), you need to be in ITU network and use your ITU username and SSH access:

```bash
ssh <your_username>@hpc.itu.dk
```

Use your university email password to log in, the same as for other ITU systems.

## Clone this repository to your local folder at ITU HPC

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ehsanyousefzadehasl/Monitoring_GPUs_on_HPC.git
```

# How to write a job at HPC

The ITU HPC cluster uses SLURM as its scheduler/resource manager. SLURM handles tasks submitted by users and allocates the specified resources based on the task description. To execute tasks on the cluster, you must create a task script like the following example:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

#SBATCH --job-name=cuda_test_job_name      # Job name
#SBATCH --output=cuda_test_output_name     # output file name
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=2                  # Schedule 2 cores (includes hyperthreading)
#SBATCH --gres=gpu                         # Schedule a GPU, it can be on 2 gpus like gpu:2
#SBATCH --time=00:05:00                    # Run time (hh:mm:ss)
#SBATCH --partition=scavenge               # Run on any permitted queue that has availability
#SBATCH --exclusive			                   # Exclusive access to the server

module load CUDA/12.1.1

nvcc test_cuda.cu -o test_cuda

dcgmi dmon -e 155,156,200,201,203,204,1001,1002,1003,1004,1005,1006,1007,1008,1009,1010,1011,1012 > dcgmi-log.out &

nvidia-smi --query-gpu=gpu_name,pstate,timestamp,utilization.gpu,memory.total,memory.used --format=csv -l 1 -f nvidia-smi-log.out &

./test_cuda
```

## Notes:

1. You do not have admin access on the cluster, so you cannot install software yourself.
2. Use the module system to load software packages installed by the admins.

For example, to load CUDA:

```bash
module CUDA/12.1.1 
```

This command loads the CUDA environment, including the NVCC compiler needed to compile CUDA programs.

To view all available modules on the cluster:

```bash
module avail
```

## Monitoring CPUs and GPUs
To monitor various hardware metrics during program execution, one can use tools such as top (https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/top.1.html) for CPUs and nvidia-smi (https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/nvidia-smi/index.html) and dcgmi (https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/dcgm/latest/user-guide/feature-overview.html) for GPUs, which you can also see in the example above. Unfortunately, dcgm isn't supported by all the GPUs in ITU's HPC cluster, so if you want to see any output there, you should add the following line in the beginning of your job script.

```bash
#SBATCH --constraint="gpu_v100|gpu_a30|gpu_a100_40gb|gpu_a100_80gb|gpu_h100|gpu_a100_40gb"
```

## To execute the job

```bash
sbatch itgt.job
```

## To monitor the job status

```bash
squeue
```

```bash
squeue -u <username>
```

## After Execution
Once the task is complete, you can check the GPU metrics in the log files:
- dcgmi-log.out: Contains detailed metrics captured by dcgmi.
- nvidia-smi-log.out: Logs GPU state and usage metrics as specified in the query.
